= eco_apps_support

eco_apps_support contains a set of utils/extensions/helpers/ based on rails3, making rails development easier and life happier.
eco_apps_support is independent on other eco_apps gems and js related helpers are built on jquery.

= Key URLs

Git/Issues: http://github.com/eleutian/eco_apps_support

Blog: http://developer.idapted.com

RDoc: {RDoc}[http://rubydoc.info/github/eleutian/eco_apps_support/f30858/file/README.rdoc]

= Extensions

== ActiveRecord

=== dom_id
dom_id(prefix = "")

  article = Article.find(1)
  article.dom_id # => "article_1"
  article.dom_id("list") # => "list_article_1"

=== day_condition_for
day_condition_for(day, column = "created_at")
Construct sql for day conditions.

  Article.day_condition_for("2010-12-01", "published_at")

=== days_between
days_between(from, to, ignore_weekend = false)

  Article.days_between(Time.now, Time.now + 5.days) # => 5
  Article.find(1).days_between("2010-12-01", "2010-12-06", true) # => 3

=== convert_tz
convert_tz(column_name, format="%Y-%m-%d")
Format sql date.

  Article.all(:conditions => "#{convert_tz(:created_at, "%H")} > 18") # Find records created after 6pm.

=== find_column_by_name
find_column_by_name(column_name)

  Article.find_column_by_name(:created_at).type # => :datetime

== Fixnum

=== to_formatted_time
to_formatted_time(with_second = true)

  30.to_formatted_time # => "0:30"
  1000.to_formatted_time # => "16:40"
  10000.to_formatted_time # => "2:46:40"
  10000.to_formatted_time(false) # => "2:46"

to_time_zone

  8.to_time_zone.name # => "Beijing"

== String

=== to_html

  "Hello\nWorld".to_html # => "<p>Hello\n<br />World</p>"

This method can be extended by block or defining subclass of StringFormatter

  "Hello\nWorld".to_html{|t| t.gsub(/o/,"i")} # => "<p>Helli\n<br />Wirld</p>"

  class MyFormatter < StringFormatter
    def self.format(str)
      str.gsub(/Hello/,"Hi")
    end
  end
  "Hello\nWorld".to_html # => "<p>Hi\n<br />World</p>"

= View Helpers

== Date Field

=== date_field_tag
date_field_tag(name, value =nil, options= {})

  date_field_tag :published_at

=== date_field
date_field(object_name, method, options = {})
  date_field :article, :published_at

  form_for @article, :article, articles_path do |f|
    f.date_field :published_at
  end

== JavaScript Effects

=== jquery_include_tag
jquery_include_tag(*files)

Include jquery js/css files.

  jquery_include_tag # include jquery.min.js
  jquery_include_tag(:ui, :css) # include jquery-ui.min.js and jquery-ui.css

=== toggle_element

toggle_element(dom_id)

  link_to_function :detail, toggle_element("detail")

=== popup
popup(*args, &block)

  popup "new article", new_article_path
  popup "new article", new_article_path, :width => "80%", :iframe => true

=== ajax_load
ajax_load(url)

  ajax_load(articles_path)

== Search Form

=== search_form_for
search_form_for(klass, *attrs)

Combo search for a module.

  search_form_for(Article, :title, :created_at)
  search_form_for(Article, [:created_at, {:ampm => true}]) # Limit records by am or pm
  search_form_for(Article, [:published_at, {:null_check => true}]) # Select if published_at is null
  search_form_for(Article, [:score, {:collection => [1,2,3]}])
  search_form_for(Article, [:score, {:range => true}])
  search_form_for(Article, "comments.title")

=== search_tag
search_tag(url, search_tip = "", options = {})

Simple search form.

  search_tag("/articles", "Title or description")
  search_tag("/articles", "Title or description", :remote => true, :size => 50)

== Widgets

=== list_table_for

list_table_for(collection = [], options = {}, &block)

List records in table.

  list_table_for @articles do |item, col|
    col.tr_color = "red" if item.published_at.blank? # Change background color of tr
    col.add :id
    col.add :title, link_to(item.title, article_path(item)), :width => "60%"
    col.add :published_at, item.published_at.to_s(:date), :order => "published_at" # Generate a link in head, when click the link ,the records will be sorted by published_at
  end

  # options
  :searchable # Search content in table by js
  :ignore_header # Ignore table header
  :ignore_footer # Ignore paginate links
  :update # When not null, the paginate links will be remote
  :sortable # sort table columns

=== make_table_sortable
make_table_sortable(table_id)(table_id)

  make_table_sortable("stat_table")

=== calendar_view
calendar_view(options = {}, &block)

Display content in calendar.

  calendar_view{|day| day.to_s(:long) }

  # options
  :ignore_header # Ignore calendar header

= Model Utils

== combo_search
combo_search(conditions, options = {}, &block)

Search an active_record model.

  Article.combo_search(:published => true)
  Article.combo_search(:published => true, :order => "id desc")
  Article.combo_search({:created_at => {:from => "2010-11-01", :to => "2010-11-02"}})
  Article.combo_search({:created_at => {:from => "2010-11-01", :ampm => "am"}})
  Article.combo_search({:published_at => {:is_null => false}}, :joins => "comments")
  
  # options
  :order
  :joins
  :includes
  :paginate # default is true, if set to false, the results will not be paginated
  :default # when set to :none, [] will be returned if conditions are blank.
  :page # current page for pagination
  :per_page # number of records in one page, default is 20

This is usually used together with search_form_for.

  # in view
  search_form_for Article, :id, [:created_at, {:ampm => true}], [:published_at, {:null_check => true}]

  # in controller
  Article.combo_search(params)

This function can be extended by block or define subclass of EcoAppsSupport::ComboSearch::SqlHash.

For example, we'd like to search records by created hour. Article.combo_search{:created_at => {:after => 13}} will return records that are created after 13:00.

Send block to combo_search.

  Article.combo_search{:created_at => {:after => 13}} do |hash|
    hash.match :after, :datetime do |column, value|
        "#{Article.convert_tz(column, "%H")} >= #{value}"
    end
  end

Define subclass of EcoAppsSupport::ComboSearch::SqlHash

  class AfterMatch < EcoAppsSupport::ComboSearch::SqlHash
    match :after, :datetime do |column, value|
        "#{ActiveRecord::Base.convert_tz(column, "%H")} >= #{value}"
    end
  end